it's recording alright let's do this
hello everybody welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync it is
October the 31st 2019 still chugging
through Jacob has volunteered to be a
note-taker thank you very much Jacob
that's very kind
all right so the hackpad with all of the
notes and things is here let me put it
in the chat i chat capture if you have
not already please would you fill in
your a sink update it's at the you
should put that at the bottom of the
document we won't go through this during
the meeting but it's for people to
review asynchronously as they please and
follow up if they need to all right
checklist continue what have we got so
if you are here please put your name in
the attendees bit so that we know you're
here for for the record and we will
continue on with the initiatives where
we talk about what's what's going on in
the world of the J what not just yes go
and Jess IVF escort implementations cool
so first up we have upgraded release
process as I said Stephen is about
taking brain Alex did you write this
these words here actually testing for a
party repos Herrera actually actually
testing third party repo so we added
support this ratio a while ago and and
we are actually now testings they're
probably repos in the bill every build
so not just internal ones but some set
up oh he wants to the problem is that
some of the third-party repairs were
testing although they signed up for the
early release custard cake they don't
actually depend on choice of FS or the
HTTP client some of them depend on you
know IP FSD CTL instead and don't pass a
version of it in so it's like well
that's cool but there's nothing there
that we can swap out to test for an
update in one
so there's some issues further down the
weather when I talk to them and further
down the document they explore that in a
little more detail but fundamentally I
mean we can like it would be lovely to
test you know dependencies of
dependencies but it wouldn't be lovely
at all it would be madness and chaos
because we then don't know like what's
breaking whose fall there is like what
needs to be done to fix it so we
shouldn't do that and instead we should
ask these people to instead depend on a
version because that way they guarantee
that they work with that version and
then we can guarantee that they will
work with the version that we want it to
work with and otherwise everyone will
just go nuts so that is that any
questions
I think that makes absolute sense I
think we should where people are using
IP FSD CTL and not passing in an
implementation of ipfs we should
definitely tell them that that is the
best practice and make that front and
center on the IP FSD CTL repo which Hugo
I think you said you're already gonna do
so we could so we could let them know
that it's best practice by throwing an
exception if they don't do that we could
submit a pull request was more along the
lines of what I was thinking but it's
more like hip kill the problems in a
hammer
yeah kill the problem kill the process
yeah I think maybe a release of ipfs de
sitio a major a major release of it and
and a informative issue or put a request
to the reposing question would be a good
solution yeah I mean so the interesting
thing is if you if you if you offer an
improper daemon and you don't pass a
executable version we do throw an error
right and the same thing if we write if
we have a I was a we do throw an error
if we don't pass in an implementation
cool that's good all right rad
cool so that is fun times and that it's
really good because it means that our
release process time to release is
greatly greatly reduced because we don't
have to manually do that so that's super
good news very happy with that okay cool
any questions or comments on the on the
upgrade to release process then from
anyone else all right let's let's move
on then upgrading test a tester testing
infra and or process yeah
I noticed the just said people know that
the benchmarks thought I could ask the
team site has gone down again and it's
on my to-do list to have a look at it
again and fix it so it doesn't happen
again just so maybe share some times for
that more broadly because I believe you
are the only human who is able to help
us fix that problem these days
and so if we if we have a couple more
humans who can we've maintained when
you're unavailable
that would be Hugo also has the keys
cool
that's all I can share it with anyone
else you would like to have the keys I
think yeah or at least putting them
somewhere we're focusing task access
maybe like a one password might help to
you okay cool yes I agree
alright so then someone has put demo
test down at ground plus docker if you
put your like github handle or name
before you the thing them I know need to
ask about it is that you Jim just show
quickly how good is it
it's like on seconds yeah get right so I
only got this working yesterday so I'm
gonna run it so it's building a bunker
image with ipfs in it spinning up to dr.
instances on the same machine it is
Trent putting a file in one peer and
sending it to the others here so it's
all synchronized and that's done so
that's the demo and kicks out JSON and
with the JSON we can do we can we can
make really get that to run on multiple
machines now and still arbitrarily big
that's and that will be what I'll be
trying to do this week there's a good
construction next door so I don't know
if you can hear anything I'm saying
I got it
supercool what's the next step
just try to get it right on multiple
machines but there's a lot of code
review reusing rolls latest stuff and he
has to take a look at it I think like
cuz I don't even know how I'm using that
you guys and thinks the way he intended
them to be yes so but it's pretty cool
stuff with the system he created so
looking forward to iterate on it cool
okay and quick questions for Jim all
right
all interface courgettes interface
Cortez run and pass in that browser he's
laying the tracks as I'm reading them
out I've been doing some changes this
soul started up like a petting for like
a much more opposed to steal async
version and also the little setup that
we do when we configure CTL then pass
that CTL instance to the interface forth
we do this either in jessup EFS or HTTP
query and we'll probably also will do it
in interrupt and as I started looking to
porting all of this to facing CTL I
found a bunch of problems stuff that we
can confuse sure which version was
running even if we pass by th to be
client from Jessica Fest so he tells you
okay I want you to run this fortune not
your own version and stuff wasn't
working all we couldn't be sure of which
version of it should be client in
Ibrahim JSF EFS was being run it is
specially in the browser and also a
bunch of the best the interface Cortez
because first time everything scription
explaining everything and also a big new
version of CTL that it's going to be
awesome
nice can you press the link to the
description of everything yeah in the
description yet but I'll put a link that
will have a description in the future
it's waiting
future link awesome sounds good so this
in general means that our browser tests
will perhaps be a lot more stable
because we will know what version of our
tests are actually using yeah cool all
right that sounds that's not great okay
cool
any questions where you go before we
move on
daveed has a an update on test ground
would you like to share I guess yeah I
did the set of but the checklist thing
so there's like refreshing okay ours and
and and etc etc I think probably the the
useful thing to note is like roadmap in
progress and yeah if you want to follow
along check out the Trello yeah yeah
sooo yeah well here's I've been updated
like we have a room app in progress now
we have like to test friends that work
fully wanna each team spawns a bunch of
nodes and Ike uses the service like to I
get and we have the other one that likes
forms go IP FSS demons and so that is
like super useful because it really
shows how to like just like get the
basic trying to get things and shows
with getting Pepe fest there in there
and like you can just call whatever you
want from the API and Ike right your own
test point also related like we will be
putting more effort alright now that we
have gone through this iteration and
understand better I'll test downwards
and like issues more will be able to
make more progress I'm like specifying a
test plans and so it might happen soon
that you might hear from me like
thinking about like hey like he's there
at that planet where you want to see
written do you have time to contribute
to test run by writing a test plan can
we make this useful for you today right
and so still like some some things to
tune up like so as you just like heard
from Jim like I just got the tube
content your set up to work we need to
check in with
our role like as mean like very busy
with I call the events and so let's make
sure that like we didn't take the
project liking that completely like
off-track
but I I believe like we are in the right
track you just want to make sure but but
yeah like if you do at the time the
interest agree our city like I heard
from Burke on the previous meeting that
he wants to test swab like you are in
work because that's exactly the best
plan that Jim is writing at the moment
so so Jamie's really writing the best
time to check out like what Big Shot is
doing and yeah like another thing that
you might find and I calculate Jim here
it was his idea because like des Khurana
as I go SDK but that you just like
import the test and therefore you can
like just plug into the whole text
constructor we want one in jest in the
future so that we can I try now so
Jessica process there so Jim al Beach
idea of just like compiling it well but
simply it should work so if you're
interested on like that Union web
assembly and if you want to give it a
try to compile the go SDK eating to web
assembly and see if you can get Ike a
test plan with Jessica vests and that's
like a very fun thing to do and yeah
like as long I also pointed out like we
have this like Trello board a Kanban
like the link is from the Remy let me
know if you don't have access to it I
can give you access that's it question
starts yes thank you in the of a meeting
you shared a list of asks of some hot
problems would you like the core
implementation implement a tiss the
people in this meeting with you or look
at things so it's an open invite for
sure and I'm sure they're like this
group most of like anyone else actually
understand though compromise very well
because you're not only develop the code
review the specs or
what what exist aspects you know I can
also we take part in many many of these
sessions that said like I don't feel it
such as like a a top priority for this
group because like so many things into
yeah like if you do have the time to
spend even if it's just like 10 minutes
per helper problem there is seven total
to thank you a little bit over an hour
just like blessing true see if you learn
something new that might be the case or
I see if there's like something that
like you it's missing there that will
you be little basically useful are you
gonna find these open problems or ipfs
slash research and the way Peter Pierce
class research thank you okay cool
let us move on unless people have
pressing questions awesome okay so what
have we got next subdomain gateway
Lydell things are on how do you want to
talk to this or service kit I hear you
not speak louder what it's working just
shout we can send you go free
okay so basically subdomain gateways are
blocked by the lack of support for PIDs
in base 52 and for that we need to
implement pure this as CA DS that's
working I linked the tracking issue
basically I did not get to this but I
want to at least find some time this
week and implement support plus test in
a way that does not flip the switch of
the default representation but like if
someone passes the peer ID I see id v1
it should just work because basically
like Delhi p2p internally workers only
about the multi cache so in that like
backwards-compatible way as admin
Eurasian path specified in RFC number
one for a p2p we should be able to move
forward with this and I'm publicly
putting it there to shame myself if I
don't deliver
that's it listen thank you later quick
questions for Ledo no ok moving on then
to distributed signaling is still on
hold pending async/await refactor still
the case yes yes okay moving on then to
IP NS and Aiden is out for holiday okay
so we will skip over that one as well
unless people want to say anything
Hugo has a thing oh sorry I'm so sorry
Hugo go yeah this week and been in
Berlin hackathon up with a bunch of
people about Munich things but also
about IP Nets of the DNS net this one
group showed real interest and they
actually build stuff we like this and we
are really interested they want to thank
you I like that we also get information
about flights do we have a spec for I
penis over dere house I know that
there's a this was implemented in JSI P
of s and and the aim for q3 was to have
that but what's the latest status on
that I know that Dominic had built
something in go but that we needed the
spec in order to make sure that we're
building the same thing across both
languages and then that kind of got
blocked yeah it's basically my fault
everyone is waiting on my spec on me
right inspector I'm trying to finish oh
thank you
okay
then moving on to migration of motor
hash keys in block store the news there
is the the tool to migrate repose in
jsrf s and the PR that implemented the
initial thing got reviewed and merged
and there was some feedback that has
been implemented in a separate PR and
I'm just looking at that or I was
looking at that until I had to start
these meetings so that is imminently
landing and then from there we will have
a a tool to be able to migrate the repo
from one version to another and that
means we can unlock things like changing
the datastore to use multi hashes and
said to see IDs as keys
I mentioned to look a little bit of a
freak about like the problem of IP FS
refs API and actually when that returns
stuff because we would be storing keys
as multi ashes we lose our I do D codec
and I forgot that we I think there was a
decision a few weeks or months back to
just in to print out I've killed you
draw blocks in that case because we just
don't have the information anymore and
so just so you know that was the
solution there but we can go ahead and
change that and that means that we have
no longer have to do the dual CID
version look up every time we want to
get something out of our repo we don't
check version zero Co DS and if it's not
there check version one co DS and if
it's not there it's definitely not there
and if it was there on on either version
then it was there so that's that's the
performance went and and it gets us one
step closer to CID base 32 by default so
that's happening any questions on that
Coolio
so I get us mount Dominic how's it going
you're here I don't hear you
we've skip over Dominic for now okay
we're running short on time anyway so
there is a there's an update in the
notes anyway um Dirk you are here would
you like to give us an update on your
proof of concept have you been able to
get any further is there anything
anything more so the latest is that I
have all the tests passing in the proven
concepts and and I've written a bunch of
new tests for all the new code I've
written so in terms of testing I just
need to add some tests for the engine
out of the code which I'll probably do
today and tomorrow and I'm gonna start
running against test grounds just to
make sure that so we've run we've been
benchmarking quite a lot against a kind
of network
okay so descent like use case and we've
been doing that in ec2 and so now I'm
keen to try out the weekly chairman Toby
to been doing tests around nice it's
very exciting
cool okay so any questions for duck
before him move on his work should make
bit swap infinitely better rounded down
somewhat maybe twice it's good times
good
I don't anyway okay next up okay it's
this one again the async/await refactor
Libby to be Vasco and Jacob would you
like to click up there yes so we've got
the dialer upgrader the initial part of
that has been merged and hooked up to
the PDP so you can dial and stuff now
using all the new stuff which is great
my area we also added an interface for
crypto this week this weekend we did not
have an interface for it
so now we do so SEC IO can migrate to
that and we'll also be doing a plaintext
to based all of that we've also migrated
all of the interface repos into a new
jeaious interface repo so all the async
refactor can just pull from there and
will deprecated all of those those old
repos we just have one place for the
interfaces and then we've got a slew of
pub/sub PRS out and ready for my eyes to
look at so I'll be reviewing those this
weekend giving much little feedback and
then Bush was working on interpreting
that into the p2p
so hopefully we should have pub/sub done
this week and then we're also working on
migrating the pure store over I think
that's mostly it oh we're pausing on
WebSocket star for right now we'll
probably pick that up back at the end
towards the end of the refactor but we
base in sweer subset sun setting the
protocol we may work on a different
approach to get us the connectivity like
circuit relay and then another pure
discovery system that we lose when we
lose WebSockets are but we're postponing
that now is the lower priority
nice I was saying in an earlier meeting
that we've async/await it feels like the
beginning of the end of things have
bubbled up significantly
Lippe to be I think in the according to
the issue there's something like 8 8
repos that are in progress for async
refactor there know how complete that is
but there's nothing there's nothing more
to star on they are they are all in
flight for ipfs there is I think we've
bubbled everything up and and there's
only like the ipfs main repo and the
httpclient to get through but I mean
these are significant modules in that in
the refactor but we finally kind of
we're finally bubbling out to the top
which is super exciting
it's been a long slog so thank you
everyone who has contributed because
couldn't have done it without you
there's something like 67 replays
alright ok let's move on so oh yeah so
the news I had was that I did make a
start on this for and for jess IVFs and
i did some work refactoring the kind of
boot logic so when you first created a
node and so like we have distinct kind
of states for initialized and started
and stopped and what it does it kind of
restricts the AP what API is you can
actually use at each given state rather
than at the moment we're just like I
think there's a few AP is that actually
check the state of the node before you
you call them but this what this BR does
is it means that you just in it when a
node is in a particular state you just
won't be able to use this set of AP is
and there's no no need to kind of have
the boilerplate in every single API for
it checking there's one place where
which defines what what's available or
not so if that makes it in that will be
a good a good good thing and and there's
a bunch of other benefits but check out
the PR though for in the notes because I
listed them out much more succinctly
than I am saying right now there
it also adds ipfs add in the new kind of
new API style and as in using async
actually using async iterators as part
the API so if you're interested in that
go and check out the br and yeah there
are a bunch of other new things so Pedro
you said you put down your engine yes
you've been working on it and drop and
interface corts and I have a mental
note to get to that and review them so
that's that and I know that Alex has
refactored the files API to use behind
the scenes and async await so that is
also very good have I missed anything on
that this week
people who have been working on it in
ipfs land okay rad
alright cool okay design review
proposals doesn't look like there is
anything that anyone to put down this
week and this last minute okay blockers
and or asks someone has asked Dirk to
have a look at a pull request yeah sorry
I totally missed that ones so by the way
if I ever miss anything like that feel
free to ping me if it's been more than a
day or something cool Thank You Dirk and
as we spoke about earlier dahveed's open
problems have been pasted in there it
would be good to get the links as well
anyway so questions any quick questions
we are on time
you
I think my mic is working oh yeah let's
go back to Dominic of course yesterday
you I'll be brief um so mainly I've just
been iterating on feedback with the poll
requests related to some of the amount
stuff mainly there's some ambiguities
like we have some flexibility as to how
we can do some things in regards to our
plugin the api and like the actual
protocol that we're using for the file
operations and stuff so things work
right now but they could work another
way that may be better so some of that
stuff just has to be discussed and and
like written down so our users know what
to expect and we can actually write
tests around it and stuff like that so
that's been on my mind and then I've
also been doing a lot of upstream stuff
in regards to like portability adding a
lot of platform support an architecture
support for some of the things that we
depend on and writing and debugging
tests so that I can go from saying it
should work to it does work and that's
wrong
nice thank you and sorry fan
coming back to you okay like let's
scroll down it back again talking lot I
think we have no time for this right now
um but if we can
when the notes are pull requested to the
repo that would be super good does that
sound good to funk okay cool
all right it's been a long meeting I
know I'm sorry
and that is the end of the docs sorry
doc the the notes and weekly updates are
there for a sink really cool hooray
thank you for coming everyone it's been
really nice to see you our faces again
and I'll see you next week for another
exciting round of my PFS core
implementations and and yeah we'll do
the sink and all that stuff bye bye